Tomorrow, organizations are increasingly relying on computing networks because users and
employees expect to exchange information at the speed of thought. Additionally, with the
evolution of technology, there has been a greater focus on ease of use. Routine tasks rely on the
use of computers for accessing, providing, or just storing information. However, as information
assets differentiate the competitive organization from others of its kind, do they register an
increase in their contribution to the corporate capital? There is a sense of urgency on behalf of
the organization to secure these assets from likely threats and vulnerabilities. The subject of
addressing information security is vast and it is the endeavor of this course to provide the student
with a comprehensive body of knowledge required to secure the information assets under
his/her consideration.
This course assumes that organizational policies exist that are endorsed by top-level
management and that business objective and goals related to security have been incorporated
into the corporate strategy. A security policy is a specification of how objects in a security domain
are allowed to interact. The importance of security in the contemporary information and
telecommunications scenario cannot be overemphasized. There are myriad reasons for securing
ICT infrastructure. Initially, computers were designed to facilitate research, and this did not place
much emphasis on security as these resources, being scarce, were meant for sharing. The
permeation of computers into both the routine workspace and daily life has led to more control
being transferred to computers and a higher dependency on them for facilitating important
routine tasks. This has further increased the usage of networked environments and networkbased
applications. Any network disruptions mean a loss of time, money, and, sometimes, even
loss of life. Additionally, the increasing complexity of computer infrastructure administration and
management is creating a direct impact of security breaches on the corporate asset base and
goodwill.